.TH fw-admin.conf 5 "19 Mar 2013"
.SH NAME
fw-admin.conf \- Main config file for the tool fw-admin
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfw-admin.conf\fP is the main config file for the tool \fBfw-admin\fP.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The directives are global variables used across all the code of \fBfw-admin\fP.
.TP
\fB$FORMAT\fP
There are two ways \fBfw-admin\fP can handle the firewall: script or restore.

Script is about standar bash files with rules.

Restore is for \fBiptables-save\fP format, using bash variables from datafiles to abstract the difference between IPv4 and IPv6.

Values: {restore|script} Default: script
.TP
\fB$DOMAIN\fP
The main domain you are using. For example, in CICA we use: \fBDOMAIN="cica.es"\fP.

This directive is mandatory to be set. Unexpected behaviour of \fBfw-admin\fP if unset.

Values: string Default: example.com
.TP
\fB$MINIMAL_AMOUNT_OF_RULES\fP
How many rules are needed to be in kernel to consider the firewall running.

When calling \fBfw-admin -s\fP it will show a message ([fw-up] or [fw-down]) from this number.

Also, that message is used by the init.d script.

Values: integer >= 0 Default: 0
.TP
\fB$CONF_DIR\fP
The directory for rules.

Values: absolute dirname Default: /etc/fw-admin.d/rules
.TP
\fB$DATA_DIR\fP
Where datafiles are stored.

Values: absolute dirname Default: /var/lib/fw-admin
.TP
\fB$VARS_IPV4\fP
The v4 datafile.

Values: absolute pathname to file Default: $DATA_DIR/datafile_v4.sh
.TP
\fB$VARS_IPV6\fP
The v6 datafile.

Values: absolute pathname to file Default: $DATA_DIR/datafile_v6.sh
.TP
\fB$LOG_ERROR_MESSAGES\fP
If error messages should be logged using \fBlogger(1)\fP.

Values: {yes|no} Default: yes
.TP
\fB$LOG_WARN_MESSAGES\fP
If warning messages should be logged using \fBlogger(1)\fP.

Values: {yes|no} Default: yes
.TP
\fB$USE_COLORS\fP
If \fBfw-admin\fP should print messages with colours in stdout and stderr.

Values: {yes|no} Default: yes
.TP
\fB$USE_PROGRESS_BAR\fP
There are some slow operations. The progress bar can make you less bored.

Values: {yes|no} Default: yes
.TP
\fB$SHOW_OP_TIME\fP
Show operation times.

Values: {yes|no} Default: yes
.TP
\fB$FLUSH_WHEN_ABORT_START\fP
If \fBfw-admin\fP should flush rules when a \fB--start\fP action is aborted (i.e. using ^C or \fBkill(1)\fP).

Values: {yes|no} Default: yes
.TP
\fB$FLUSH_WHEN_ERROR_START\fP
If \fBfw-admin\fP should flush rules when a \fB--start\fP action fails.

Values: {yes|no} Default: no
.TP
\fB$PERMISSIVE_TRAFFIC_WHEN_STOP\fP
If configured to 'yes', \fBfw-admin\fP will add permissive rules when a stop operation occurs, i.e. \fB--stop\fP or those 
derived from \fB$FLUSH_WHEN_ABORT_START\fP and/or \fP$FLUSH_WHEN_ERROR_START\fP.

Values: {yes|no} Default: no
.TP
\fB$START_ORDER\fP
When doing a start operation, which ruleset to load (secuencially).

It is a space separated list of files, being absolute path to file or filenames if \fB$CONF_DIR\fP as described in this document.

Values: /absolute/path/to/file AND OR file_in_CONF_DIR Default: "sets core"
.TP
\fB$STOP_ORDER\fP
The inverse of \fB$START_ORDER\fP. Please, note that \fPIPset(8)\fP files are ignored here.

Values: /absolute/path/to/file AND OR file_in_CONF_DIR Default: "core"
.SH HINTS
· Differences between \fB$FORMAT=restore\fP and \fB$FORMAT=script\fP are hard. Most of your netfilter configuration migth not work
from one config to other.

· To have the clearest stdout, set \fB$SHOW_OP_TIME\fP, \fB$USE_PROGRESS_BAR\fP and \fB$USE_COLORS\fP to \fB"no"\fP.

· If you want the faster execution time, set \fB$USE_PROGRESS_BAR\fP to \fB"no"\fP.

.SH AUTHOR, BUGS, COMENTS Y CODE
Code is at \fBhttps://github.com/aborrero/fw-admin\fP (also a wiki page).

You should go there for reporting bugs, make comments, contribute or whatever.

The original author of this tool and system (and the man page) is \fBArturo Borrero González <arturo.borrero.glez@gmail.com>\fP.

Thanks for testing and helping: CICA staff and IES GN (spain) students.
